# Wireleap client

[Wireleap](https://wireleap.com) is a public interest technology with
the goal of enabling more access to knowledge and resources on the
Internet for more people, no matter where they are. Our mission is to
positively impact peoples lives, advance the public interest and benefit
the common good.

This repository is for the Wireleap client.

## Installation

The quickest way to install the Wireleap client is by using this
convenience script:

```shell
curl -fsSL https://get.wireleap.com -o get-wireleap.sh
sh get-wireleap.sh $HOME/wireleap --symlink=$HOME/.local/bin/wireleap
```

The above will verify your environments compatibility, download the
latest client binary as well as the associated hash file to
cryptographically verify its integrity via GPG signature (in a temporary
keyring) and checksum hash. If all checks pass, it will release the
binary from quarantine, initialize the client in the specified
directory, and create a symlink.

Alternatively, you can download the [latest release][releases] and
perform manual verification and installation, or [build from
source](#building).

[releases]: https://github.com/wireleap/client/releases

## Configuration

The client configuration is stored in `config.json`. This file will
automatically be created upon `wireleap init`, and the contract variable
will be set when importing accesskeys. Currently supported variables:

Key | Type | Comment
--- | ---- | -------
timeout | `string` | Dial timeout duration
contract | `string` | Service contract associated with accesskeys
accesskey.use_on_demand | `bool` | Activate accesskeys as needed
circuit.hops | `int` | Number of relay hops to use in a circuit
circuit.whitelist | `list` | Whitelist of relays to use
address.socks | `string` | SOCKS5 proxy address of wireleap daemon
address.h2c | `string` | H2C proxy address of wireleap daemon
address.tun | `string` | TUN device address (not loopback)

```json
{
    "timeout": "5s",
    "contract": "https://contract1.example.com",
    "accesskey": {
        "use_on_demand": true
    },
    "circuit": {
        "hops": 2,
        "whitelist": []
    },
    "address": {
        "socks": "127.0.0.1:13491",
        "h2c": "127.0.0.1:13492",
        "tun": "10.13.49.0:13493"
    }
}
```

Note: after editing the `config.json` file manually with a text editor
while `wireleap` is already running, you will need to issue `wireleap
reload` for the changes to take effect.

The `wireleap config` command provides a convenient interface for both
_setting_ and _getting_ configuration variables.

```shell
# display help related to the config command
wireleap help config

# display current value of configuration variable
wireleap config address.socks

# set the address of the connection broker (requires daemon restart)
wireleap config address.socks 127.0.0.1:3434
```

After changing configuration options via `wireleap config`, the changes
will be applied immediately.

## Accesskeys

An accesskey is required to use relays enrolled in a service contract.
Accesskeys are provided by contracts after obtaining access. They are
used to cryptographically and independently generate tokens by the
client for each relay in the routing path, and included in the
appropriate encrypted onion layer of traffic being sent, allowing the
relay to authorize service. This increases the degrees of separation
between payment information and network usage.

```shell
# import accesskeys from local filesystem
wireleap import path/to/accesskeys.json
cat path/to/accesskeys.json | wireleap import -

# import accesskeys from url (replace :id)
wireleap import https://example.com/accesskeys/:id
```

Accesskeys are used to activate servicekeys, which can be done
automatically when needed (e.g., previous one has expired), or can be
manually generated and activated.

```shell
# automatically generate and activate servicekeys as needed (default)
wireleap config accesskey.use_on_demand true

# manually generate and activate a servicekey
wireleap config accesskey.use_on_demand false
wireleap servicekey
```

## Circuit

The circuit defines which relays will be used to transmit traffic. Each
relay enrolled into a contract assigns itself a role related to its
position in the connection circuit. A `fronting` relay provides an
on-ramp to the routing layer, while a `backing` relay provides an exit
from the routing layer. `entropic` relays add additional entropy to the
circuit in the routing layer.

Depending on requirements, `circuit.hops` may be any positive integer,
setting the amount of relays used in a circuit. The amount of hops
specified implicitly asserts the relay roles as well.

Hops | Fronting | Entropic | Backing
---- | -------- | -------- | -------
`1` | 0 | 0 | 1
`2` | 1 | 0 | 1
`3+` | 1 | N | 1

```shell
# set the number of circuit hops (will auto-generate a new circuit)
wireleap config circuit.hops 3
```

A circuit is generated by randomly selecting from the available relays
enrolled in a service contract. Additionally, a whitelist may be
specified allowing the creation of an exact circuit when coupled with a
specific amount of hops, or a more general *only use these relays*.

```shell
# set the number of circuit hops
wireleap config circuit.hops 1

# set a whitelist of relays to use
wireleap config circuit.whitelist '["wireleap://relay1.example.com:13490"]'

# manually trigger new circuit generation
wireleap reload
```

An initial circuit is generated upon launch and regenerated either
automatically if issues are encountered or when the wireleap daemon
receives the `SIGUSR1` signal (which also happens when settings are
modified via `wireleap config` or a reload is requested via `wireleap
reload`).

## Usage

Once `wireleap` has been initialized and is in your `$PATH`, start the
SOCKSv5 connection broker daemon.

```shell
# start the wireleap daemon (default: 127.0.0.1:13491)
wireleap start

# verify it is running and show some useful info
wireleap status
wireleap info

# (at some later time) stop the wireleap daemon
wireleap stop
```

```shell
# or, optionally, start the wireleap daemon in the foreground (ctrl-c to stop)
wireleap start --fg
```

Once the `wireleap` SOCKS5 connection broker is running, any application
that supports the `SOCKS5` protocol can be configured to route its
traffic via the connection broker.

### proxy settings

Unfortunately, there is no standard for configuration so a few examples
are provided.

> Tip: `wireleap config address.socks` will return the SOCKS5 address
> the wireleap daemon is configured to use.

```shell
# manually specifying the --proxy flag
curl --proxy socks5h://$(wireleap config address.socks) URL

# manually exporting environment variable
export ALL_PROXY="socks5h://$(wireleap config address.socks)"
curl URL

# manually specifying the --proxy-server flag
google-chrome \
    --proxy-server="socks5://$(wireleap config address.socks)" \
    --user-data-dir="$HOME/.config/google-chrome-wireleap" \
    --incognito

# manually configuring firefox
- Start Firefox, navigate to about:preferences
- General page > Network Settings > Settings
- Connection Settings
    - Select: Manual proxy configuration
        - SOCKS Host: 127.0.0.1
        - Port: 13491 # default, unless manually changed
    - Select: SOCKS v5
    - Check: Proxy DNS when using SOCKS v5
    - Click: OK
```

### wireleap exec

As mentioned above, there is no standard for proxy configuration among
applications, so a few wrapper scripts are included in
`scripts/default/` which can be executed by invoking `wireleap exec`.

On execution, the `WIRELEAP_SOCKS` environmental variable will be
available inside the script containing the current `wireleap` SOCKSv5
listening address.

Note: User-defined scripts should be placed in `scripts/` which take
preference over the default scripts.

```shell
# list available default exec commands
ls $HOME/wireleap/scripts/default

# example usage
wireleap exec curl URL
wireleap exec git clone URL
wireleap exec google-chrome [URL]
```

### wireleap intercept

For applications that do not support proxying via the `SOCKS5` protocol
natively (or even those that do), it may be possible to use `wireleap
intercept` (experimental: Linux only).

The `wireleap_intercept.so` library is used by `wireleap intercept` to
intercept network connections from arbitrary programs and tunnel them
through the configured circuit.

```shell
wireleap intercept curl URL
wireleap intercept ssh USER@HOST
```

### wireleap tun

To forward all traffic on a system (both TCP and UDP) through the
`wireleap` connection broker, it is possible to use `wireleap tun`
(experimental: Linux only).

The `wireleap tun` subcommand will use the bundled `wireleap_tun` binary
(unpacked on `wireleap init`) to set up a [tun
device](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TUN/TAP) and configure default
routes through it so that all traffic from the local system goes through
the tun device, effectively meaning that it is routed through the
currently used wireleap broker circuit.

Note: `wireleap_tun` needs sufficient privileges to create a tun device
and manage routes during the lifetime of the daemon, hence the `suid
bit`. Alternatively, `wireleap tun` commands can be run with `sudo` or
`su` (as root).

```shell
# set suid bit
sudo chown root:root $HOME/wireleap/wireleap_tun
sudo chmod u+s $HOME/wireleap/wireleap_tun
```

```shell
# start the wireleap broker (required for tun)
wireleap start

# setup tun device, configure routes, and verify its running
wireleap tun start
wireleap tun status

# show the log (eg. $HOME/wireleap/wireleap_tun.log)
wireleap tun log

# (at some later time) stop the wireleap tun daemon
wireleap tun stop
```

## Upgrade

The precompiled binary of `wireleap` includes manual upgrade
functionality. Due to protocol versioning, it is highly recommended to
keep the client up to date. A client which is out of date with regard to
the directory's required client version will refuse to run.

The client update channels supported by the directory and the respective
latest version is exposed via the directory's `/info` endpoint.

The upgrade process is interactive so you will have the possibility
to accept or decline based on the changelog for the new release version.

```shell
wireleap upgrade
```

If the upgrade was successful, the old binary is not deleted but kept as
`wireleap.prev` for rollback purposes, in case issues manifest
post-upgrade.

```shell
wireleap rollback
```

If the upgrade was not successful, it is possible to skip the faulty
version explicitly.

```shell
# skip upgrades to version 1.2.3
echo "1.2.3" > $HOME/wireleap/.skip-upgrade-version
```

## Files

The client stores its configuration and other essential files on the
filesystem in the same directory as the `wireleap` binary. It can be any
directory but `$HOME/wireleap` is a sensible value.

```shell
tree $HOME/wireleap
├── config.json
├── pofs.json
├── relays.json
├── contract.json
├── servicekey.json
├── wireleap
├── wireleap.pid
├── wireleap.log
├── wireleap_tun
├── wireleap_tun.pid
├── wireleap_tun.log
├── wireleap_intercept.so
└── scripts/default
    ├── git
    ├── curl
    ├── chromium-browser
    └── ...
```

Some of the files are described below:

**contract.json**

Contains a snapshot of the `/info` API endpoint contents of the
currently used service contract.

**servicekey.json**

If present, contains the currently active servicekey for the currently
active service contract. If `accesskey.use_on_demand` is set to
`true`, it is generated automatically using the proofs of funding from
`pofs.json`. If `accesskey.use_on_demand` is set to `false` and an
expired servicekey is read from this file, `wireleap` will return an
error. In that case, a new key can be generated via `wireleap
servicekey`.

**pofs.json**

Contains the list of proof-of-funding tokens for the currently active
service contract obtained from importing `accesskeys.json` files. It is
managed automatically by `wireleap` if `accesskey.use_on_demand` is set
to `true`.  Alternatively, it can be managed manually via the `wireleap
servicekey` command.

**relays.json**

Contains the list of known relays of the currently active service
contract obtained from its relay directory. It is refreshed on startup,
reload or when `wireleap` receives the `SIGUSR1` signal.

**wireleap.pid**

Contains the PID (process ID) of the currently running `wireleap start`
daemon (if any). It can be used to send control signals to the daemon
such as `SIGUSR1` to reload config file and contract info, and `SIGINT`,
`SIGTERM` or `SIGQUIT` to terminate gracefully.

**wireleap_intercept.so**

This is the library which is used by `wireleap intercept` to intercept
connections from arbitrary programs and tunnel them through the
configured network circuit. The command `wireleap intercept`, this file
and their associated command line options and configuration variables
are only present on Linux.

**scripts/**

This directory contains scripts to be run via `wireleap exec`. On
execution, the `WIRELEAP_SOCKS` environmental variable will be available
inside the script containing the current `wireleap` SOCKSv5 listening
address.

This directory is for user-defined scripts which take preference over
the default scripts (described below).

**scripts/default/**

This directory contains default `wireleap`-supplied scripts. If
modifications are required, just save your version of the script under
the same name in `scripts/` as the `scripts/default/` script you wish to
alter. This ensures that updates will not overwrite user changes to
scripts.

## Versioning

Releases are based on [semantic versioning](https://semver.org),
and use the format `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`. While the MAJOR version is `0`,
MINOR version bumps are considered MAJOR bumps per the semver spec.

Git tags are used to specify the software version, which are manually
assigned by tagging the relevant changelog entry. Only tagged versions
are CI-built and released after all unit and integration tests have
passed successfully.

Note: Locally built binaries will include a suffix in addition to the
latest tagged version, consisting of the number of commits past the tag
and the abbreviated hash of the HEAD commit.

## Building

Note: If you would like to make changes to the source code, please
following the [contributing](#contributing) instructions instead.

**Clone the repository**

```shell
git clone https://github.com/wireleap/client.git
```

**Checkout the latest tagged version**

For locally built binaries to match the latest stable `wireleap`
version, you will need to check out the latest git tag prior to
building as opposed to building from master.

```shell
cd client
git pull --tags origin master
git checkout $(git describe `git rev-list --tags --max-count=1`)
```

**Build the binary**

It is recommended to build the binary using docker, as described below
which uses the official `golang` docker image.

```shell
# for your host operating system
./contrib/docker/build-bin.sh build/

# for a specific target os (linux / darwin)
TARGET_OS=linux ./contrib/docker/build-bin.sh build/

# specify a cache for faster subsequent builds
mkdir -p build/.deps
DEPS_CACHE=build/.deps ./contrib/docker/build-bin.sh build/
```

If you prefer to use your host system instead of docker, you can do so
with `contrib/build-bin.sh` provided you have the relevant dependencies
installed.

## Contributing

This flow is loosely based on the standard [GitHub flow][github_flow]
collaborative development model.

Collaboration between developers is facilitated via pull requests from
topic branches towards the `master` branch, and pull request reviews are
used to achieve consensus before merging the changes into the `master`
branch.

A note about the `master` branch:

- Anything in the master branch is deployable, builds successfully and
  is tested to work. The CI/CD system performs both integration and unit
  tests, but should be considered as only a filter to immediately
  highlight PRs which would break the master branch and therefore need
  to be either discarded or amended. Automated checks are no substitute
  for code review, so all PRs are manually reviewed prior to merge.

- Direct commits to the master branch are **prohibited**, with the
  only exception being a core-dev pushing a signed git-tag signifying a
  release.

[github_flow]: https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/

### Fork, clone and setup upstream remote

The following instructions outline the recommended procedure for
creating a fork of this repository in order to contribute changes.

Firstly, click the `fork` button at the top of the page. Once forked,
clone your fork and set an upstream remote to keep track of changes.

```shell
git clone git@github.com:USERNAME/client.git

cd client
git remote add upstream git@github.com:wireleap/client.git
git checkout master
git pull --tags upstream master
git config commit.gpgsign true
```

### Create a feature branch and make your changes

Create a descriptively named topic branch based on the `master` branch.
Please take care to only address **one** issue/bug/feature per pull
request.

```shell
git checkout master
git pull --tags upstream master
git checkout -b DESCRIPTIVE_BRANCH_NAME
```

When making your changes, test and commit as you go. Try to make commits
that capture an atomic change to the codebase. Source code should be
documented where necessary and the rationale for changes included in
commits should be clear.

If a commit resolves a known issue or relates to other commits or PRs,
please refer to them.

### Unit testing

The unit tests can either be run on your host or within docker using the
official golang docker image.

```shell
# run unit tests on host
./contrib/run-tests.sh

# run unit tests in docker
./contrib/docker/run-tests.sh

# run unit tests in docker (specify cache for faster subsequent tests)
mkdir -p build/.deps
DEPS_CACHE=build/.deps ./contrib/docker/run-tests.sh
```

### Rebase on master if needed

It can happen that as you were working on a feature, the state of the
`upstream/master` branch has changed due to merging other pull requests.
In this case, rebase your topic branch on top of the `master` branch. If
needed, resolve merge conflicts.

```shell
git checkout master
git fetch upstream
git merge upstream/master
git rebase --interactive master DESCRIPTIVE_BRANCH_NAME
```

After every change to the git history of your topic branch, perform
testing to avoid regressions.

### Push changes and submit a pull request

When you think the topic branch is ready for merging, passes all tests,
all changes are committed with appropriate commit messages, and your
topic branch is based on the current state of the `upstream/master`
branch, push them to the **topic branch** (not master) of your fork.

```shell
# push changes
git push origin DESCRIPTIVE_BRANCH_NAME

# if you have already pushed commits to a topic branch, and later
# performed a rebase on top of master, a force push will be required
git push --force origin DESCRIPTIVE_BRANCH_NAME
```

Once pushed, follow the link specified in the `git push` output and
click `pull request`. Give your changes a last-minute correctness check,
and supply the high-level description of the changes.

Finally, click `send pull request` so the reviewers can review and
approve the changes, or request modifications prior to performing the
merge.

### Review process and merge

The pull request may be approved or additional modifications might be
requested by one of the reviewers. If modifications are requested,
commit and push more changes to the **same** topic branch and they will
be included in the original pull request until it is ultimately closed.

Branch protection rules are in place. They include:

- Requiring all commits in PRs to be signed.
- Requiring all integration and unit tests to complete successfully.
- Requiring at least one approval from a core-dev.

If there is an issue with the proposed changes, modifications should be
requested. For discussions on the rationale of certain choices in the
code, GitHub comments in the respective files can be left for the author
of the pull request to address.

Please note that every merged pull request is considered final and it is
always better to hold off on merging a pull request than have to open
another one correcting the changes from the first one. Additionally, it
is also sometimes a good idea to create pull requests towards another
PRs topic branch instead of master. This allows unifying multiple sets
of changes from different developers within the scope of a single PR.

Merging changes that are not unanimously approved by all reviewers is
**not** allowed unless special arrangements are in place (e.g. a
reviewer is away and explicitly asked to not wait on them for merging
changes).

Once the above is satisfied and all the reviewers have approved the
changes, the last person who gives their approval and has merge
permissions will close the pull request by merging it into the `master`
branch. However, if the author of the pull request has merge
permissions, they may perform the merge subject to the above.

